# Reverse-Engineer-BioNTech-Pfizer-SARS-CoV-2
Aims
	• Develop a Python program to solve a problem
	• Follow good program development and coding style practices
	• Use functions and files to allow more complex solutions
	
#Instructions

Write a Python program to solve the following problem. Your solution should include a readme.md file (which includes details of how to run your assignment) and your Python program in a file named codon_optimisation.py, and be submitted as a single .tgz file named pt2.tgz. You should ensure your solution works using the Python 3 interpreter on turing.

#Problem

The mayor of Codetown is ambitious. Not content to simply wait for the COVID-19 vaccine to arrive, she wants to study the vaccine and understand how it was developed. She knows that RNA works a lot like computer code, so has enlisted your help. In particular, she wants to understand and/or improve how the RNA from the virus was modified by the manufacturer to create their vaccine. She has commissioned you to develop a set of rules that takes a representation of the virus RNA and optimises it to a form similar to that of the BioNTech/Pfizer SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine. She also wants you to implement these rules in a Python program.


Note: This assignment is based on the challenge presented at https://berthub.eu/articles/posts/part-2-reverse-engineering-source-code-of-the-biontech-pfizer-vaccine/. This is a real-world problem, giving you the potential to truly contribute to vaccine research.

#Essential Background
It is strongly recommended you read Bert Hubert's post Reverse Engineering the source code of the BioNTech/Pfizer SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine for relevant background information.

The basic idea is that vaccines can be developed by slightly modifying some RNA from a virus. Nature groups three nucleotides into a codon which can be represented as a group of three G, C, A, or T characters. Thus, there are 64=43 possible codons. Each codon is converted into an amino acid when processed by a cell to fold into a protein. But there are only 20 different amino acids. This means a given amino acid may be able to be encoded by multiple different codons.

For this assignment, you must take a list of codons (each represented as a string of three G, C, A, or T characters) from the COVID-19 virus S protein and modify it to better match the codons in the extremely efficient BioNTech/Pfizer SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine S protein.

As a starting point, it is generally the case that a higher number of G and/or C characters improves the efficiency of an mRNA vaccine. 

So one approach would be to consider the amino acid generated by a given codon and replace it with the codon with the most G and/or C characters that produces the same amino acid. Please do not feel that you must limit your approach to this guideline.

#Details
You are provided with skeleton.py (see below), virus.txt (unprocessed RNA of the virus S protein), vaccine.txt (unprocessed RNA of the vaccine S protein), and codon-aminoacid.csv (mapping codons to the amino acid they produce).

The provided skeleton.py reads each of virus.txt and vaccine.txt in to a list of codons.

The codons from the virus are then passed as a parameter to the function opimise_codons which you have to implement (the skeleton just copies the input codons to the output, but you need to optimise the codons in some way).

Your aim is to convert the codons given as input to optimise_codons by using a set of rules that result in a new set of codons. Further, you should aim to have the input converted to a set of codons as similar to those of the given vaccine as possible (though note that you shouldn't just make your code return the vaccine - we're after a simple set of rules that could potentially be used in a more general context, so you shouldn't use knowledge of just the particular vaccine when developing your rules).

To help ensure that the codon you use produces the same amino acids as the one input, the function get_amino_acid takes a codon as input and outputs a representation of the associated amino acid (using codon-aminoacid.csv to determine this information). This function may be useful in your implementation of optimise_codons.

As well as writing your optimisation code, you also need to describe and justify the rules you have implemented in English. This information must be included in your readme.md file, in enough detail that somebody else could reimplement your approach without looking at your code (in particular, the explanation in your readme.md file should not include any code).

There will also be a classwide competition to see who can achieve the greatest improvement in compatability with the given vaccine, with the greatest optimisation receiving the most marks.

Note that program specifications are not always clear. If you are uncertain about any aspect, you are typically better off asking than making assumptions. Please use the appropriate discussion forum to ask for clarification, if required.

#Code Skeleton
skeleton.py must be used as the basis for your solution (that is, you should copy this code into your codon_optimisation.py file). You must then implement the optimise_codons function as specified in the Details section, and add comments throughout the file to make your code understandable (you may add other functions if you like, and can make use of any libraries available on turing). Your program must not write anything to standard output, apart from the three print statements included in skeleton.py. You must not make any other changes to the skeleton and should not make use of the vaccine.txt file at any point in the code you write.
